Describe `UIDispatcher`'s usage in the Using Asynchronous Windows APIs document (#428)
microsoft/react-native-windows-samples: docs/native-modules-async.md

> **Important:** This example shows the minimum case, where you don't handle any errors within `GetHttpResponseAsync`, but you're not limited to this. You're free to detect error conditions within your code and call `capturedPromise.Reject()` yourself with (more useful) error messages at any time. However you should *always* include this final handler, to catch any unexpected and unhandled exceptions that may occur, especially when calling Windows APIs. Just be sure that you only call `Reject()` once and that nothing executes afterwards.

That's it! If you want to see the complete `SimpleHttpModule`, see [`AsyncMethodExamples.h`](https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-windows-samples/blob/master/samples/NativeModuleSample/cppwinrt/windows/NativeModuleSample/AsyncMethodExamples.h).

## Executing calls to API on the UI thread

> Since version 0.64, calls to native modules longer run on the UI thread. This means that each call to the APIs that must be executed on the UI thread now needs to be explicitly dispatched.

Reviewer: >longer [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=44&length=6)

no longer

Reviewer: Please fix it before merging.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since version 0.64, calls to native modules no longer run on the UI thread. This means that each call to the APIs that must be executed on the UI thread now needs to be explicitly dispatched.
```

> **Important:** This example shows the minimum case, where you don't handle any errors within `GetHttpResponseAsync`, but you're not limited to this. You're free to detect error conditions within your code and call `capturedPromise.Reject()` yourself with (more useful) error messages at any time. However you should *always* include this final handler, to catch any unexpected and unhandled exceptions that may occur, especially when calling Windows APIs. Just be sure that you only call `Reject()` once and that nothing executes afterwards.

That's it! If you want to see the complete `SimpleHttpModule`, see [`AsyncMethodExamples.h`](https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-windows-samples/blob/master/samples/NativeModuleSample/cppwinrt/windows/NativeModuleSample/AsyncMethodExamples.h).

## Executing calls to API on the UI thread

> From version 0.64 the native module's code does no longer run on the UI thread. It means that each call to the API that should be executed on the UI thread now needs to be explicitly dispatched.

Reviewer 3: should be 'no longer runs'

To do that the [UIDispatcher](https://microsoft.github.io/react-native-windows/docs/IReactDispatcher) should be used.

> This part will cover the basic usage scenario of the `UIDispatcher` and it's `Post()` method with the *FileOpenPicker* (for the explanation of opening files and folder with a picker on UWP please check the [Open files and folders with a picker](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/files/quickstart-using-file-and-folder-pickers)).

Reviewer 3: it's -> `its`

### Using `UIDispatcher` with C#

> Let's suppose we have the native module which opens and loads the file using the *FileOpenPicker*.  

Reviewer 3: -> 'a native module which open a file'

> Following the official example the native module's method launching the picker would look like:

Reviewer 3: -> 'like the following:' || 'as follows:'

> Following the official example the native module's method launching the picker would look like:

Reviewer 3: If you're referring to the current RNW docs, then this PR will overwrite them, making the reference ambiguous.

Might be better to explicitly mention version 0.63 and below or remove this section, leaving only the new way of doing things.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps reversing the order, and first showing the new, correct way would be more effective.

Author: I'm referring to the [official example](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/Windows.Storage.Pickers.FileOpenPicker?view=winrt-19041#examples) of using the *FileOpenPicker*.
I'll try to emphasize so there's no confusion.

```cs
  [ReactMethod("openFile")]
  public async void OpenFile()
  {
    var picker = new Windows.Storage.Pickers.FileOpenPicker();
    // Other initialization code
    Windows.Storage.StorageFile file = await picker.PickSingleFileAsync();

    if (file != null)
    {
      // File opened successfully
    }
    else
    {
      // Error while opening the file
    }
  }
```

> However, from 0.64 this method would end up with `System.Exception: Invalid window handle`.

Reviewer 3: (nit) would change all occurrences of `from v 0.64` to `since` to denote the starting point of an action that continues in the present

So to avoid that, we need to wrap this call with the `UIDispatcher.Post` method.

> > **Note:** `UIDispatcher` is available via the `ReactContext`, which we should get as a `ReactInitializer` method:

Reviewer 3: I think this might sound better:
`which we can inject through a method marked as 'ReactInitializer'` or
`which we can get a reference to by adding a method tagged with the ReactInitializer attribute`

### Using `UIDispatcher` with C++/WinRT

Let's suppose we have the native module which opens and loads the file using the *FileOpenPicker*.  
Following the official example the native module's method launching the picker would look like:

```cpp
  REACT_METHOD( OpenFile, L"openFile" );
  winrt::fire_and_forget OpenFile() noexcept
  {
    winrt::Windows::Storage::Pickers::FileOpenPicker openPicker;
    // Other initialization code
    winrt::Windows::Storage::StorageFile file = co_await openPicker.PickSingleFileAsync();

    if (file != nullptr)
    {
      // File opened successfully
    }
    else
    {
      // Error while opening the file
    }
  }
```
However, from 0.64 this method would end up with `ERROR_INVALID_WINDOW_HANDLE`.
So to avoid that, we need to wrap this call with the `UIDispatcher.Post` method.

> **Note:** `UIDispatcher` is available via the `ReactContext`, which we should get as a `REACT_INIT` method:
> ```cpp
>  REACT_INIT(Initialize);
>  void Initialize(const winrt::Microsoft::ReactNative::ReactContext& reactContext) noexcept
>  {
>      context = reactContext;
>  }
>```

To do it, let's

> 1. separate the file's opening and handling from the UI thread logic, by moving this logic to the private method:

Reviewer 3: capital 's' for consistency with bullet no. 2

```cpp
  winrt::fire_and_forget OpenFile() noexcept
  {
    winrt::Windows::Storage::Pickers::FileOpenPicker openPicker;
    // Other initialization code
    winrt::Windows::Storage::StorageFile file = co_await openPicker.PickSingleFileAsync();

    if (file != nullptr)
    {
      // File opened successfully
    }
    else
    {
      // Error while opening the file
    }
  }
```
2. Call this private method as a callback of `UIDispatcher.Post()` method:
```cpp
  REACT_METHOD(OpenFile, L"openFile" );
  void OpenFile() noexcept
  {
    context.UIDispatcher().Post(

>       [this]()->void { LaunchPicker(); }

Reviewer 3: `LaunchPicker` looks like the name from the CS example - is this correct here?

Author: This is correct, but the private `OpenFile` should be renamed to `LaunchPicker` just like in the C# example.

> **Important:** This example shows the minimum case, where you don't handle any errors within `GetHttpResponseAsync`, but you're not limited to this. You're free to detect error conditions within your code and call `capturedPromise.Reject()` yourself with (more useful) error messages at any time. However you should *always* include this final handler, to catch any unexpected and unhandled exceptions that may occur, especially when calling Windows APIs. Just be sure that you only call `Reject()` once and that nothing executes afterwards.

That's it! If you want to see the complete `SimpleHttpModule`, see [`AsyncMethodExamples.h`](https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-windows-samples/blob/master/samples/NativeModuleSample/cppwinrt/windows/NativeModuleSample/AsyncMethodExamples.h).

## Executing calls to API on the UI thread

Since version 0.64 the native module's code no longer runs on the UI thread. It means that each call to the API that should be executed on the UI thread now needs to be explicitly dispatched.

> To do that the [UIDispatcher](https://microsoft.github.io/react-native-windows/docs/IReactDispatcher) should be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do that the [`UIDispatcher`](https://microsoft.github.io/react-native-windows/docs/IReactDispatcher) should be used.
```

This part will cover the basic usage scenario of the `UIDispatcher` and its `Post()` method with the *FileOpenPicker* (for the explanation of opening files and folder with a picker on UWP please check the [Open files and folders with a picker](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/files/quickstart-using-file-and-folder-pickers)).

### Using `UIDispatcher` with C#

> Let's suppose we have a native module which opens a file using the *FileOpenPicker*.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's suppose we have a native module which opens a file using the `FileOpenPicker`.  
```

> Following the official example the native module's method launching the picker would look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Following the official example, the native module's method for launching the picker would look like this:
```

Author: What about: https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-windows-samples/pull/428#discussion_r621519470

Reviewer 2: I'd personally vote for this version in both :)

Reviewer 3: @BartoszKlonowski All 3 are correct, it's just a matter of choice. You can go with Alex's option

```cs
  [ReactMethod("openFile")]
  public async void OpenFile()
  {
    var picker = new Windows.Storage.Pickers.FileOpenPicker();
    // Other initialization code
    Windows.Storage.StorageFile file = await picker.PickSingleFileAsync();

    if (file != null)
    {
      // File opened successfully
    }
    else
    {
      // Error while opening the file
    }
  }
```

> However, since v0.64 this method would end up with `System.Exception: Invalid window handle`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, starting with react-native-windows 0.64, this method would end up with `System.Exception: Invalid window handle`.
```

> So to avoid that, we need to wrap this call with the `UIDispatcher.Post` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the `FileOpenPicker` API requires running on the UI thread, we need to wrap this call with the `UIDispatcher.Post` method.
```

> > **Note:** `UIDispatcher` is available via the `ReactContext`, which we can inject through a method marked as `ReactInitializer`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** `UIDispatcher` is available via the `ReactContext`, which we can inject through a method marked as [`ReactInitializer`](native-modules-advanced.md#c-native-modules-with-initializer-and-as-a-way-to-access-reactcontext)
```

> ```cs
>  [ReactInitializer]
>  public void Initialize( ReactContext reactContext )
>  {
>      context = reactContext;
>  }
>```

To do it, let's

> 1. Separate the file's opening and handling from the UI thread logic, by moving this logic to the private method:

Reviewer 2: this doesn't seem strictly necessary (esp if it's just calling one function), but might be a "good practice", depending.

```cs
  private async void LaunchPicker()
  {
    var picker = new Windows.Storage.Pickers.FileOpenPicker();
    // Other initialization code
    Windows.Storage.StorageFile file = await picker.PickSingleFileAsync();

    if (file != null)
    {
      // File opened successfully
    }
    else
    {
      // Error while opening the file
    }
  }
```
2. Call this private method as a callback of `UIDispatcher.Post()` method:
```cs
  [ReactMethod("openFile")]
  public void OpenFile()
  {
      context.Handle.UIDispatcher.Post(
        () => LaunchPicker()
      );
  }
```

Now if we call the `openFile` method in our JS code the file picker's window will open.

### Using `UIDispatcher` with C++/WinRT

> 

Reviewer 2: [same comments to the C++ version as the C# :) ]

> Let's suppose we have the native module which opens and loads the file using the *FileOpenPicker*.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's suppose we have the native module which opens and loads the file using the `FileOpenPicker`.  
```

Following the official example the native module's method launching the picker would look like:

```cpp
  REACT_METHOD( OpenFile, L"openFile" );
  winrt::fire_and_forget OpenFile() noexcept
  {
    winrt::Windows::Storage::Pickers::FileOpenPicker openPicker;
    // Other initialization code
    winrt::Windows::Storage::StorageFile file = co_await openPicker.PickSingleFileAsync();

    if (file != nullptr)
    {
      // File opened successfully
    }
    else
    {
      // Error while opening the file
    }
  }
```

> However, since v0.64 this method would end up with `ERROR_INVALID_WINDOW_HANDLE`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, starting with react-native-windows 0.64, this method would end up with `ERROR_INVALID_WINDOW_HANDLE`.
```

So to avoid that, we need to wrap this call with the `UIDispatcher.Post` method.

> **Note:** `UIDispatcher` is available via the `ReactContext`, which we can inject through a method marked as `REACT_METHOD`:
> ```cpp
>  REACT_INIT(Initialize);
>  void Initialize(const winrt::Microsoft::ReactNative::ReactContext& reactContext) noexcept
>  {
>      context = reactContext;
>  }
>```

To do it, let's
1. Separate the file's opening and handling from the UI thread logic, by moving this logic to the private method:
```cpp
  winrt::fire_and_forget LaunchPicker() noexcept
  {
    winrt::Windows::Storage::Pickers::FileOpenPicker openPicker;
    // Other initialization code
    winrt::Windows::Storage::StorageFile file = co_await openPicker.PickSingleFileAsync();

    if (file != nullptr)
    {
      // File opened successfully
    }
    else
    {
      // Error while opening the file
    }
  }
```
2. Call this private method as a callback of `UIDispatcher.Post()` method:
```cpp
  REACT_METHOD(OpenFile, L"openFile" );
  void OpenFile() noexcept
  {
    context.UIDispatcher().Post(

>       [this]()->void { LaunchPicker(); }

Reviewer 2: can remove the -> void for simplicity

## Executing calls to API on the UI thread

> Since version 0.64 the native module's code no longer runs on the UI thread. It means that each call to the API that should be executed on the UI thread now needs to be explicitly dispatched.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since version 0.64, calls to native modules no longer run on the UI thread. This means that each call to APIs that must be executed on the UI thread now needs to be explicitly dispatched.
```

To do that the [UIDispatcher](https://microsoft.github.io/react-native-windows/docs/IReactDispatcher) should be used.

> This part will cover the basic usage scenario of the `UIDispatcher` and its `Post()` method with the *FileOpenPicker* (for the explanation of opening files and folder with a picker on UWP please check the [Open files and folders with a picker](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/files/quickstart-using-file-and-folder-pickers)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section will cover the basic usage scenario of the `UIDispatcher` and its `Post()` method with the WinRT *FileOpenPicker* (for a description of opening files and folder with a picker on UWP please see the [Open files and folders with a picker](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/files/quickstart-using-file-and-folder-pickers)).
```
